# G's World
#### Video Demo:  <URL https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Nkg0XmLVh4>
#### Description:
##### Story:
G's World is a project I started working on for the CS50X course. I decided to create is a small RPG top-down style video game. The story goes around G's world where you (a noble knight) help a medieval village fight against the night creatures terrorizing their world. At the beginning it's almost impossible to defeat the beast alone. However, the village's merchant provides some assistance. She sends you around the map to gather specific ingredients that combine to make a magic potion that will help you confront the beast with a chance of making it out alive. This potion helps you acquire the necessary strength to slay the night creature…or die trying.

##### Mechanics
Pressing the 'esc' key will open this menu that provides you with the basic options. The UI consists of portraits, chats, healthbars, a clock, an inventory and your user name. The mechanics of the game circle around the time factor. Cycling through the 24h of a day, G's World is no exception to the grasp of Time. The fact that the creature roams freely only at night and that certain items can only be found in the light or dark makes the way you approach your survival crucial. As a result, I have implemented potions that transform the time to day or night, their use is essential not only to find the items but also to escape some sticky situations. The monster in the game was definitely one the most fun parts to code, and the decision to make him go through objects makes the path finder algorithm almost too easy, but I encountered myself adding many details and mechanics to the game and delaying the deadline a lot to finish the project, so I tried to keep it simple since collisions and overlaying was one of the hardest things to tackle without an actual Game Engine to facilitate the work. Still, I added different items you can pick up, and cool animations and sounds for each interaction.

##### Art
The artistic side of the game consists of a compilation of assets made by great artists in Itch.io which I can't thank enough for allowing me, and everyone else to use. I have included a sub domain called Credit where I mention their contributions and show where to find more of their content. Putting it together was no easy task since I had to experiment with several styles to figure out what combined. But, I learned a lot about pixel art, games styles and definitely gained a lot of respect for all the time and effort these people put in their projects and although it took me some time to adapt and replace some of them later, I am content with the end result.

##### Code
Behind the hood is just plain Javascript which I have explored a lot over the last month and spent hours trying new APIs, googling and debugging and reading through pages of documentation and good old Stackoverflow. Jinja was definitely useful to create templates and keep consistency on the web application and I learned a lot more about HTML and CSS, creating, editing and deleting content from inside the Js file. The backend of the project works with Python more specifically using Flask to manage the logic behind all navigation and flow of data in the web application and Sqlite3 for creating my database and saving all the users progress once they click the Save button and asynchronously downloading their game data once they log back in or die in the game.